>> Melkey: I figured since we're
already in the workout store,
let's just create the update
workout function as well, and
then we can scaffold both of those
into the workout handler, okay?
So right underneath the get workout
by ID function, we just created,
we're gonna create our news function,
func pg is gonna be PostgresWorkoutStore,
and this can be called UpdateWorkout,
like so.
It's gonna take one argument, which gonna
be a workout, which can be a pointer
to our workout, and it's gonna return our
error or a error, which could be nil.
Now, updating a workout requires us
to go into two different tables,
and if we update one part of the workout,
something happens.
We don't want that, we wanna adhere
to the asset principle and databases.
So because of that, we're gonna
again create our transaction here,
like we did in the create workout.
So here, let's go ahead and create our
transaction variable and an error.
We can say pg.db and
we can say Begin like so.
We can quickly check for the error
if our error does not equal to nil,
we can just return that error.
And like we did above,
we can just defer any rollbacks, so
transaction not Rollback like so.
All right, so now once that is defined,
we can go ahead and
start creating the queries for
updating our workout.
So here I'm gonna just
create the Query here.
>> Melkey: Okay, and
this is gonna be fairly simple,
we're gonna do update the workouts table.
I'm gonna Set the title to value 1,
description to value 2,
duration_minutes to value 3,
and calories burned to value 4, like so.
Where the id is going to be value 5, okay?
So now this query when we call it expects
five variables that we will parse in,
okay?
And luckily for
us these all exist into the argument we
parsed in which is the workout, okay?
And just like we did before,
we are going to now call this query,
we're gonna first create
a results variable and error.
And this is gonna be tx.Exec,
like so, parse in the query and
then the five functions it
expects in the order they appear.
So workout.Title, workout.Description,
workout.DurationMinutes.
>> Melkey: Workout.CaloriesBurned, okay?
And the last one which needs to forget,
workout.ID.
With that, always check the error,
so if error does not equal to nil,
let's go ahead and just return that error.
And now what we wanna do, if there's
no error, we would like to know,
did this work?
Cuz again, you could update something
technically that doesn't exist.
It's not gonna error out, but the query
can just say, yeah, nothing was updated.
So we wanna know how many rows were
affected through this operation.
It can do something like rows affected,
okay?
Err, is going to be result dot this nifty
little function called RowsAffected,
which returns the number of rows affected
by update, insert, or delete, okay?
Little comment there, not every database
or driving may support this, Postgres and
PGX does indeed support this.
>> Melkey: All right, and again,
we can just check some errors.
So if err does not equal to nil,
let's go ahead and return that err.
And then we can check if rowsAffected is
zero, so if rowsAffected is zero like so
we can just return our sql that err,
no rows like we saw above.
>> Melkey: So this point, just like we
did with the with the get, we have only
completed that first portion, the workout
part of our struck, which is a high level.
But now we have to do the entries, okay?
So with entries,
it can get complicated, and
there's two ways someone can handle this.
So you can actually, from the requester,
get the request of the ID of
the individual entry you wanna update,
iterate through it,
find the ID and update it like so.
Or you can do what I'm gonna implement,
which is a full-on patch update.
We're gonna actually delete all
the worker entries as a whole and
then we're gonna reinsert
the workout entries, okay?
So this seems like a bit of a small
potentially, but what we're going to do is
in the caller, we're gonna first get
the workouts which we saw earlier.
We're gonna have all the workout entries,
and then we're gonna match the request
from our client to see if there's any
differences for fields they wanna update.
And I'm gonna send all of
that into this function here.
Okay, and we can, you can do both,
both are fairly effective,
this one is just easier to implement.
This one's easier to implement, but
potentially more at fault for things to
go wrong, whereas the other solution,
where you iterate through work at entries,
parse them by ID, make that ID, something
that you request from your client.
Maybe it's a little bit more complicated,
but a little bit more secure.
So I'll leave it up to you if
you wanna change it up, but
we'll have a working solution
here with this approach.
So we can start this by just
declaring a new error and
using the transaction Exec one more time.
I'm gonna build this query in line,
so use the backticks.
We're gonna simply just write
DELETE FROM workout_entries
WHERE workout_id equals the first value,
and
that value can pass in
right away with workout.ID.
We're getting yelled at that no new
variables exist on the left side.
So if you're getting this, just remove
this local of the walrus operator.
All right, let's check that err,
if err does not equal to nil,
you just simply return the err.
Otherwise, we can iterate through
the workout entries that we get from our
client call, and then insert those
individually into our database.
So here, we can do entry in range
workout.Entries, like so,
we create our new query.
And this here is gonna be
INSERT INTO workout_entries,
make sure you spell that right,
I keep typing entires.
We can type in all the fields
we wanna insert, so
we can do workout_id,
exercise_name, sets, reps.
The duration in seconds, notes,
and order index, like so.
And again, should be eight values that
we're inserting, so we can do VALUES.
>> Melkey: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
And for some people maybe asking
why is it like that money symbol?
That's just Postgres native,
that's how we do it in Postgres,
how you pass variables
via Postgres drivers.
I think in no SQL, it's different,
I forget what it is in other
database drivers, but I know in Postgres,
it is the money symbol.
And I realize I've a typo here, so
make sure that this is VALUES,
oops, like so.
>> Speaker 2: Are you missing a item and
the insert query?
>> Melkey: Let's see, Worker ID, 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, what am I missing?
>> Speaker 2: Wait, I think.
>> Melkey: Yeah, good catch.
>> Melkey: So, duration, seconds,
weight, notes, order, index, yep.
And so,
now that we have the query defined,
we can then execute this with our tx.Exec.
Let's put in query and in the order
at which these variables come in.
So when it was noted
that weight was missing,
I specifically put it after
duration seconds, and
I'm gonna adhere to that when I pass
that variable into the order here.
So I'm just gonna open this up just to
make it a little bit easier to read, okay?
I'm gonna put workout.ID, and
then, entry.ExerciseName,
entry.Sets, entry.Reps, okay?
Entry.DurationSeconds, entry.Weight,
entry.Note.
>> Melkey: And
the last one is entry.OrderIndex.
Okay, we have to just check that err,
so if err does not equal to nil,
let's just return the err.
And then the last compiler error that
we should be getting is that we're not
returning anything, but
we can just simply return tx.Commit.
>> Speaker 3: I guess, to recap, instead
of finding specifically, like two point
the transaction and updating just
that one, just get rid of it.
>> Melkey: Yeah,
this is like a full patch update, so
we're just eliminating all the entries and
we're gonna reinsert them.
And as is,
this puts more emphasis on the API layer.
So we'll see once we hook this
up into our workout handler,
we actually do a get workout
call to get everything.
And then we match if there's any updates
to the entries from our caller's payload,
and then we call this
function to insert them.
>> Speaker 4: One quick question on the
tx.Exec call where you delete, I didn't
really understand why we needed to get rid
of the colon there to get rid of that err?
>> Melkey: So this is a compiler err and
what this is saying so you may be kind of
wondering why this is erroring out like
let's say here it's not right like, right?
Above, so if I were to just remove result
a bunch of things are gonna go red,
just heads up.
If we do this and
I ignore the first response,
we're gonna get the same err here,
no new variables on the left side.
And the reason for that is because
the compiler ignores the first response,
which is this result, and
only cares about err.
But since we've already declared err
way above here for the first time,
the compiler doesn't allow us to redeclare
a new variable with the same name.
We can rewrite err, right?
Like so, so now it's fine, but
we can declare a new variable,
which is what this shorthand form syntax
does, it declares new variables for us.
So if we kinda go all the way back,
we have result.
It's fine here, but at the bottom here,
we don't really care about the result
from this particular delete query,
which is why we can remove the short
form colon operator here and
just rewrite what that error is, or
reassign it, the value from tx.Exec.
>> Speaker 4: Got, so because you have the
result there, it's assigning result and
kind of ignoring the fact
that error was already.
>> Melkey: Exactly because
result is in fact new,
it's going to give us the brand new
variable result and then reassign err.